Let's have a look at a slightly more realistic example.
Here I have a 2-dimensional car and
a 2-dimensional coordinate frame. I've labeled
this coordinate frame W and that stands for
the world coordinate frame and this is quite
a common thing in robotics to have one reference
frame that all other reference frames are
described with respect to. And to indicate
that very, very clearly, I've labeled the
x and y axis with the subscript W, so it's
very, very clear that this is the x-axis of
the W frame and the y-axis of the W frame.
Now let's indicate some points of interest
in this car, the left seat: the right seat,
one of the mirrors, door handles, and perhaps
where we refuel it. I can describe each of
these points by a vector, with respect to
the world coordinate frame.
Now let's imagine that a car has moved, now
it's over here, I could now describe all these
points again in terms of vectors with respect
to the origin of the world coordinate frame.
But it's a little bit tedious because the
points haven't actually moved with respect
to the car, the whole car has moved and now
I have to redefine all the vectors again.
Perhaps, there's a better way. And there it
is, we are going to use the coordinate frame
idea again and we are going to create a new
coordinate frame and I'm going to attach it
to the car. I labeled this frame C - C for
car. And just to be clear, I labeled the
axis XC and YC: X and Y axis are the coordinate
frame that are attached to the car. Now it's
a simple matter to describe all these points
of interest on the car in terms of vectors
with respect to the car's coordinate frame.
Now if I moved the car, the vectors have changed
with respect to the world but they haven't
changed with respect to the car's coordinate frame.
Let's simplify things a bit and introduce
a pose here. So introduce another one of these
fat arrows which represents a pose, and this
is the pose from the world coordinate frame
to the car's coordinate frame so it's W ksi Z.
Now let's look at just a single point, one
of the points on the door of the car. I'm
going to label that point d and we created
vector from frame C to this point d, and we
denote that in the way we've already discussed
we use a symbol P to denote that we're talking
about a vector. C is the reference frame so
this is a vector with respect to frame C,
so it begins at the origin of frame C and
it goes to the point d. Now let's consider
that I want to know what is this vector: the
point D with respect to the world coordinate
frame. In some sort of simplistic way, what
I want to do is to add these 2 arrows. I want
to move along here, and I want to move along
here. But it's not quite that simple, we can't
add a pose and a vector. We can't add a fat
arrow to a thin arrow. Poses and vectors are
different mathematical objects so we need
to do this a little bit carefully.
The way we do it is to introduce a new operator,
and it's the dot. In this formalism, we have
a pose and it operates on a vector in order
to transform it to a different coordinate
frame. That's what this operator dot does:
it transforms this vector which describes
the point d with respect to the coordinate
frame C, to a vector that describes the point
d with respect to the coordinate frame W.
It performs a transformation between coordinate
frames. All of this is rather abstract. I’ve
introduced this operator dot, but I haven't
told you actually what it is - how would you
code it? And, we introduced this abstract
pose thing described by the Greek letter ksi
- and I haven't said exactly what that is
or how you could code that or implement that.
These are things would get to in the following
sections in this lecture.